Good evening ladies and gentlemen. A
very warm welcome to ICICI Lumbar Gender
Insurance Company Limited Q3 and 9
months FYI 2026 earnings conference call
from the senior management we have with
us today Mr. Sanjie Mantri MD and CEO of
the company Mr. Gopal Balachandran CFO
Mr. Anand Singhi Chief Retail and
Government Mr. Girish Nayek, chief
technology and health underwriting and
claims. Mr. Sep Gorada, chief corporate
solutions international and bank
assurance and Mr. Goro Vora, chief
reinsurance underwriting and claims for
property and casualty.
Please note that any statements,
comments are made in today's call that
may look like forward-looking statements
are based on the information presently
available to the management and do not
constitute an indication of any future
performance as future involved risks and
uncertaintities which could cause
results to differ materially from the
current views being expressed. As a
reminder, all participant lines will be
in the listenon mode and there will be
an opportunity for you to ask questions
after the presentation concludes. Should
you need assistance during the
conference call, please signal an
operator by pressing star and then zero
on your touchstone phone.
I now hand the conference over to Mr.
Sanjie Mantri, MD and CEO ICI Lombard
General Insurance Limited. Thank you and
over to you sir.
Good evening to each one of you. Thank
you for joining the earnings conference
call for ICL Lombard for quarter 3 and 9
months financial year 2026.
At the outset, let me wish you all a
very happy new year and best of health
and happiness.
I would like to give you a brief
overview of the recent economic and
industry trends which has shaped the
operating environment over the past few
months. Following that, our CFO Mr.
Gopalar Balach Chandan will take you
through the company's financial
performance for the recently concluded
quarter and 9 months. The Indian economy
recorded a GDP growth of 8.2% in quarter
2 up from 7.8 in the preceding quarter.
The expansion was underpinned by
substained government capital
expenditure coupled with an increase in
private capex rup service activi
services activity and a rebound in
private consumption. Consumption was
further supported by easing inflation
and the GST rationalization implemented
in late September 2025.
Coming to Q3 financial year 2026, the
index of industrial production, IIP data
indicates positivity supported by
manufacturing growth, continued
infrastructure development and a
turnaround in consumer goods segment. EV
bill generation and toll collections
during the same period recorded growth
of 13% and 17% YI reflecting strong
underlying economic activity. We believe
that these high frequency indicators
should auger well for a commercial line
of segmented
by GST rationalization the automo sector
has seen a significant uptick in sales.
According to retail sales data based on
vahan registration, the auto industry
recorded a growth of 19.5% for quarter 3
2026 resulting in a total of 9.4 million
vehicles sold. Within this, private car
had seen a growth of 19.3%
translating to 1.3 million vehicles. The
two-heer segment grew by 19.2%
with the 7 million vehicles whereas
commercial vehicles grew by 22.2%.
with 1.1 million vehicles being sold.
Interestingly, the overall growth in the
vehicle sales is the highest in last 12
quarters. To add to it, this growth is
more broad-based as tier three cities
and beyond have demonstrated faster
growth in both private car and two
wheeler segments. This is also
coraborated by strong growth of 28.8% in
tractor sales for the quarter.
Overall, the acceleration in new vehicle
sales for the quarter has also led to a
7.7% growth for calendar year 2025 with
a 28.1 million units being sold.
The landmark decision of exemption of
GST on retail health insurance has
significantly improved affordability and
increased awareness.
The industry has passed on the complete
benefit of GST exemptions to the end
consumers.
This has led to an increase in policy
uptake as more customers are seeing
health seeking healthcare protection.
Here too, the growth in retail health
appears to be broad-based across markets
and it's supported by a surge in
firsttime buyers especially for tier 2
and tier three cities which is a
positive for this sector.
On the regulatory front, the government
of India took a significant step during
the quarter by introducing
forward-looking reforms in the insurance
laws with the passage of Sapka Bimma
amendment of insurance laws bill 2025.
While most of these amendments will have
far-reaching effects on the insurance
sector over time, a few important
changes pertaining to the insurance act
are as follows. Foreign investment is in
an Indian insurance company has enhanced
from 74% to 100% thereby supporting
capital inflows enabling provisions in
the amendment act to facilitate business
other than traditional insurance
underwriting and distribution thereby
allowing insurers to offer holistic risk
management services.
Simplification of provisions relating to
investments of assets.
We are excited about these changes and
we do believe that this should be
structurally positive and would
accelerate the growth and development of
the insurance sector. This will also
facilitate ease of doing business and
provide better protection and risk
management solutions to the policy
holders.
In another significant reform in
November 2025, the government of India
formally made effective four new central
labor codes including the code on social
security 2020. Consequent to this,
benefits like graduity, leave and kashm
etc. paid on basic salary are now
required to be paid bases the new
broader definition of wage.
We believe this changes should translate
into a more resilient workforce and
strengthen employee security over time.
This change has a one-time impact on the
financials which will be covered by
Gopal in his section.
Let me now dwell upon the industry
performance for the period ended 31st
December 2025.
The general insurance industry reported
a GDPI growth of 8.7% for 9 month 2026.
Excluding crop and mass health segment,
the GDPI growth at 13.3 growth stood at
13.3% for the period 9 month 2026.
Speaking on specific segments within the
industry, commercial segment recorded a
healthy growth of 14.8%
for 9 month 2026 and 16.3% for quarter 3
2026.
This growth led by strong momentum in
the fire line which grew at 20.1%
for 9 month.
As mentioned above, this is driven by an
increase in capex, particularly in areas
such as roads, railways, and renewable
energy.
The motor segment grew at 8.9% in 9
month 2026
compared to 7.6% in H1 2026. For quarter
3 financial year 2026, the growth stood
at 10.9% supported by festive season
demand and the positive impact of GST
rationalization. Health segment grew at
14.2%
for 9 months 2026 with a strong momentum
of 27.6%
growth in quarter 3 of 2026
led by retail health which grew at 33.6%
and group health growth of 23.1%
underscoring strong demand across the
segment.
On the other hand, industry combined
ratio worsened from 113.3%
in H1 of 2025 to 119.2% in H1 of 2026,
indicating continued underwriting
pressure. During the same period, IC
core moved from 103.2%
in financial year 2025 to 104.0%
0% in H1 of 2026, reinforcing a superior
financial performance to discipline
underwriting.
The motor line of business remains a key
area of stress with the industry core
increasing from 124.8% in H1 of 2025 to
128.5%
in H1 of 2026.
IC lumbar demonstrated better portfolio
management in motor insurance with the
combined ratio improving from 108 to
106.9%
during the same period.
I will now proceed to present our
company's performance across key
business segments.
For 9 month 2026, gross domestic pre
premium income of the company grew by
3.6% 6% compared to industry growth of
8.7% for the same period.
Within this for quarter 3 2026, the
company reported a premium growth of
13.3% compared to industry growth of
11.5%
thereby improving its market share from
8.1% for quarter 3 2025 to 8.3% for
quarter 3 2026.
For December 2025 in particular, the
company's growth in GDPI was 15.1% in
comparison to the industry growth of
14.4%.
Excluding cross crop and mass health,
the company recorded a growth of 7.5%
during 9 month financial year 2026.
Again the industry growth of 13.3%.
Within this for quarter 3 2025, the
company record a growth of 16.4% 4% as
against the industry growth of 20.1%.
In the commercial line segment, our
growth stood at 7.4%
and 6.8% for quarter 3 2026 and 9 month
respectively. While the industry grew by
16.3% for quarter 3 2026 and 14.8% 8%
for 9 months 2026.
We continue to be focused on delivering
profitable growth through discipline and
underwriting, food and risk selection
and portfolio diversification resulting
in the growth of fire segment by 18.8%
in quarter 3 2026 driven by 27.4% growth
in theme segment.
Further, the company delivered a 19.3%
growth in fire compared to 15.8 8
industry growth for the month of
December 2025.
In the engineering segment, our growth
stood at 15.2% and 13.3% for quarter 3
2026 and 9 month 2026 respectively.
While the industry during the same
period grew by 11.5% and 12.9%
respectively. This led to we attaining
leadership position in engineering
segment for the 9 month 2026.
On the other side for 9 month 2026 the
company's growth for marine cargo and
liability segment was not in line with
the industry growth on on account of
portfolio rationalization. However, we
continue to maintain our leadership
position in these lines.
In motor segment for 9 month 2026 the
company record a growth of 5% whereas
the industry grew by 8.9%.
While I while our growth in H1 of 2026
was only 2.2 2% a rebound was observed
in Q3 2026 driven by an underlying
buoyancy in new motor vehicle sales.
Consequently, the motor segment grew by
9.3% in Q3 2026 supported by a strong
growth of 16.1% in December 2025.
Despite heightened competitive intensity
in the recent quarters, we remain
focused on profitable growth driven by
continuous expansion across distribution
channels and a more granular portfolio
segmentation.
Importantly, the company continues to
maintain it leadership position in the
motor segment with a market share of
10.7% for 9 months 2026.
The company's portfolio motor portfolio
mix of private car, two-wheer and
commercial vehicle stood at 53.6,
25.8% and 20.6% respectively for 9 month
financial year 2026.
In the health segment, the company grew
by 42% and a 13.8% for quarter 3 2026
and for 9 month 2026 respectively as
again the industry growth of 27.6 6% and
14.2% for quarter 3 financial year 2026
and 9 month 2026 respectively.
Our health business delivered a robust
growth of 85.8%
in quarter 3 2026 and 44.8%
in 9 month 2026 significantly
outperforming the industry growth of
33.6% 6% in quarter 3 and 16.5% for 9
month 2026.
Our growth was fueled by new to industry
customer growth of 1.7x for quarter 3
2026 and 1.4 times for 9 month 2026.
Thus our market share increases to 4% in
9 month 2026 compared to 3.2% for the
same period in the previous year. And
for quarter 3 2026, our market share has
increased to 4.5%
from 3.2% for the same period in
previous year. The strong performance
has also been driven by sustained
investment in strengthening our retail
distribution capabilities across
channels.
The group health segment registered a
growth of 26.6%
and 5.9% for quarter 3 2026 and 9 month
2026 respectively. While the industry
grew by 23.1% for quarter 3 2026 and
12.6% for 9 month 2026.
I would now like to apprise you of
certain strategic initiatives that
continue to drive operational excellence
and customer sensit centricity across
the organization.
The one call center initiative continues
to deliver strong momentum in the
company's transition towards a digital
first do-ityourself servicing model. In
December, over 60% of the total service
engagements were managed digitally as
against 38% only for April 2025. This
was possible due to our AI AI
interventions through various bots which
has helped customers in adopting DIY
service modes.
This has led to improved turnaround
times, service consistency and increased
productivity. Our differentiated service
desk initiatives which we can which we
had spoken about in a previous call have
resulted in increase of our call center
NPS to 73 in Q3 of 2026 from 60 in Q1 of
financial year 2026.
Building on a one is one digital
framework, we continue to take positive
strides to our offering a seamless and
omni channel experience across our
website and the ILCare platform. As you
might recall, the ILCare app was
initially launched to provide a
continuum of care for our health
insurance customers. Over time, the app
has continuously evolved with new
functionaries and features, making it a
comprehensive one-stop solution for
service and sales across multiple retail
product lines.
The app has now crossed 19.7 million
downloads as of December 31st, 2025,
reflective growing customer engagement
and dig digital adoption.
The customer registered the the company
registered a GWP of 3.54 billion for 9
month 2026 from the ILTKare app as
against 1.45 billion for the same period
last year.
Take care has also made significant
progress in addressing key customer
service requirements and delivering a
seamless insurance experience. Just to
highlight for Trip Secure Plus, our
premier travel insurance product,
customers can now independently manage
claims, policy cancellations,
extensions, and modifications through
the app. These enhancements have enabled
93%
of services service requests to be
processed on DIY basis without the need
for manual intervention
leading to a corresponding reduction in
support call volumes. Notably 79% of
claim intimation for trip secure plus in
December 2025 were also initiated
through take care app as compared to 22%
in July 2025.
In order to continually enhance our
efficiency levels in motor claims, we
have expanded our cashless garage
network from 13,600 plus garages in
quarter 3 2025 to 15,000 garages in
quarter 3 2026.
75.2%
of our nonm claims for quarter 3 2026
were serviced at PPN up from 73.6 in
quarter 3 2025 leading to a enhanced
customer experience.
In the retail segment 99.6% of our total
claims were paid within 30 days and for
motor insurance own damage segment 96.8%
of our claims were paid within 30 days
for the period ended 9 month 2026. As a
result, our NPS for H1 2026 for health
claims stood at 70 and for motor claims
stood at 69, reinforcing our position as
a customer centric organization.
In conclusion, the domestic macro
environment remains supportive with
broad-based consumption showing healthy
momentum. We remain focused on building
a sustainable long-term franchise
anchored in the strength of our
technology processes service
architecture. Through our one team
initiative, we continue to sharpen
execution, drive consistency, and
deliver customer outcomes at scale. We
are well positioned to convert a more
supportive demand environment into a
steady highquality growth while
maintaining discipline and underwriting,
service delivery and operating
efficiency. I will now request Gopal to
take you through the financial numbers
for the period 9 month 2026. Uh thanks
Ajiv and uh good evening to each one of
you. I will now give you a brief
overview of the financial performance of
the recently concluded quarter and 9
months. We have uploaded the results
presentation on our website. You all can
access it as we walk you through the
performance numbers. Uh with effect from
October 1, 2024, long-term products are
accounted on a 1 byN basis as mandated
by our regulator. Please refer to our
investor presentation on slide 16 for a
much more detailed information on
comparison of financials on N and 1 byN
basis. Uh now let me update on GDPI
numbers. Please note these numbers are
on 1 byN basis. The GDP of the company
was at uh 213.72 billion rupees in 9
months current year as against rupees
206.23 billion in 9 months FI25. A
growth of 3.6% 6% as against the
industry growth of 8.7%.
GDP of the company was at 70 billion
70.41 billion in Q3 FI26 as against
rupees 62.14 billion in Q3 FI25. A
growth of 13.3% as against the industry
growth of 11.5%.
Resulting in our market share to grow
from 8.1% in quarter 3 last year to 8.3%
in quarter 3 of the current year. On the
retail side of the business, GDP of the
motor segment was at rupes 33.99 billion
in Q3 FI26 as against rupes 31.09
billion in Q3 FI25
registering a growth of 9.3%.
The advanced premium for motor segment
was at 41.26 billion rupees as at
December 31 2025 as against rupes 39.13
billion as at September 30, 2025.
GDP of the health segment was at rupes
20.44 44 in Q3 this year as against
rupes 14.53 billion in Q3 FI25
registering a growth of 40.6%.
Within this our retail segment
registered a robust growth of 85.8%.
During the same period GDP of our
commercial line was at rupes 15.72
billion in Q3 FI26 as against rupes
14.63 billion in Q3 FI25
registering a growth of 7.4%. Our agent
which includes the point of sale
distribution count was 1 lak 50,458
as at December 31 2025 up from 147408
as at September 30 2025. Our combined
ratio on 1 byn basis was 104.2%
in 9 months current year as against
102.9%
in 9 months last year. On an N basis,
our combined ratio was 103.1% in the
current year as against 102.8% in 9
months last year. The combined ratio on
again 1 byn for this quarter 3 current
year was 104.5%.
as against 102.7%
in Q3 last year. Again on an end basis
for this year quarter 3 combined ratio
was 103.1
as against 102.3 in Q3 FI25.
We have been talking about the impact of
CAT losses. So if one was to exclude the
impact of CAT losses of rupees.84
billion in 9 months current year and 94
billion in 9 months of last year. The
combined ratio on a 1 by n basis was
103.7%
and 102.3% respectively. The same
numbers on an n basis was 102.6% and
102.2% respectively.
Uh now coming to the quarter excluding
the impact of cat losses of rupees.1
billion in Q3 current year. The combined
ratio on 1 by n was 104.3
and the same numbers on an n basis was
103%.
There were no CAT losses in Q3 FI25 and
as mentioned by Sanji in his opening
remarks excluding the impact of wage
code of rupees.55
billion our combined ratio on a 1 byN
basis for 9 months current year and
quarter 3 current year was 103.9%
and 103.5%
respectively. On a n basis our combined
ratio excluding the wage code wage code
impact was 102.8 8% and 102.2% for 9
months and Q3 respectively. Our
investment assets during the quarter
rose to rupes 582.96 billion as at
December 31, 2025 up from rupes 562
billion as at September 30, 2025. Our
investment leverage net of borrowing was
3.6 times at December 31, 2025 as
against 3.57 at September 30, 2025.
Investment income was at rupes 37.57
billion in 9 months current year as
against rups 33.73 billion in 9 months
last year. On a quarterly basis,
investment income was at rupees 12.19
billion in Q3 current year as against
rupes 11.21 billion in Q3 last year. Our
capital gains net of impairment or
investment assets stood at rupes 9.33
billion in 9 months current year as
against rupes 7.96 billion in 9 months
last year. Capital gains stood at rupes
3.17 billion in quarter 3 current year
as compared to rupees 2.76 billion in Q2
3 last year. On a 1 byN basis, our PBT
grew by 10.8% at rupees 29.41 billion in
9 months current year as against rupees
26.53 billion in 9 months last year on
an again for the quarter on a one by
basis PBT grew by 9.4%
for the current quarter as against rupes
9.6 6 billion in Q3 last year.
Consequently, on a 1 byN basis, PAD grew
by 11.3%
at rupes 22.225 billion in 9 months
current year as against rupes 19.99
billion in 9 last year. The same numbers
on an end basis for profit after tax
grew by 13.8% at rupes 22.22 billion in
9 months current year as against rupes
19.53 billion in 9 months last year. On
a one by basis, fat degrrew by 9.1% at
6.59 billion in Q3 current year from
7.24 billion in Q3 last year. Again,
coming back to an end basis, VAT
remained flattish at 6.8 billion in Q3
current year from 6.79 billion in Q3
last last year. Excluding the impact of
wage code uh on a 1 byN basis, PAT was
rupes 22.67 67 billion in 9 months
current year and rupes 7 billion in Q3
current year registering a growth of
13.4% and a degrowth of 3.3%
respectively. The same numbers on an end
basis PAT was rupees 22.64 billion for 9
months current year and rupes 7.21
billion in Q3 of this quarter
registering a growth of 15.9% and 6.3%
respectively.
Coming to ROE on a 1 byN basis it was
19.5% in 9 months as against 20.8% in 9
months last year. ROE for the quarter 3
current year was 16.5% as against 21.5%
in Q3 FI25 excluding the wage code
impact on a 1 byN basis ROE was 19.8%
and 17.5% in 9 months and Q3 of the
current year respectively. Solveny ratio
was at 2.69 69 times at December 31,
2025 as against 2.73 times at September
30, 2025 continued to be higher than the
minimum regulatory requirement of 1.5
times. As I conclude, I would like to
state that uh we are all aligned with
our ethos of driving profitable growth,
consistent and sustainable value
creation for all our stakeholders while
ensuring that the interest of the policy
holders are in the forefront at all
times. I'd like to thank you all for
attending this earnings call and we will
now be happy to take any questions that
you have. Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. We will now begin
with the question and answer session.
Anyone who wishes to ask a question may
press star and then one on their
touchstone phone.
If you wish to remove yourself from the
question queue, you may press star and
two. Participants are requested to use
handsets while asking a question.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will wait for a
moment while the question queue
assembles.
>> Our first question comes from the line
of Supraim Duta from Jeff. Please go
ahead.
>> Hi. Um, thanks for the opportunity. My
first question is on the labor codes.
Um, you know, we understand that you
know there is a 50 cr impact from you
know the labor code changes. Just wanted
to understand what proportion of this is
recurring versus what proportion of this
was one time. You know that was the
first question. Secondly, you know,
coming to growth now, you know, despite
the GST tailwinds, um, you know, the
growth even on the motor side, if I see
has been, you know, slower than what the
industry has, uh, witnessed and I do
understand that, you know, competition
has been elevated. But you know the
regulator at the regulatory level has
taken multiple steps you know be it
expense of management guidelines or you
know discussions with industry you know
to reduce the competitive intensity or
bring in some bit of rationality yet we
are you know not able to see that happen
so from here you know if I'm taking a
two to threeear view what will you know
drive growth in the motor segment for a
player like you which already has 10 11%
market share you know that's you know if
you could throw some light on that you
know that would be very helpful. And
lastly on the motor TP loss ratio uh I
do understand last time there was a TP
release
uh but uh you know this time it seems to
be a more normalized loss ratio. Um
could we assume that you know the
reserve release is hold and you know
there is no further release that that
would come in the fourth quarter or you
know could there be further releases
that would come in the fourth quarter
you know if you could throw some light
on the release that would also be
helpful. Thank you.
Thanks thanks thanks Ukraine for those
questions. Uh on the first one uh so far
as the labor code is concerned obviously
uh uh uh the impact of 55 crores uh in
that sense is one time because it's
primarily the liability resulting from
an actual valuation uh for the past
service uh cost uh in so far as uh wages
is concerned. Having said that,
obviously this code is also evolving. Uh
so hence to that extent we will have to
see if there are any more incremental
guidelines or rules that are that come
into existence. But at this point of
time this is whatever has been released
thus far. This impact of 55 crores is uh
what is the past service uh cost uh
which is more which is a complete impact
that we have taken in the financials of
quarter 3 and 9 months. And if you have
seen also the disclosure that we have
made uh there is an element of roughly
about 17 crores. This is the amount of
unamotized cost uh which will kind of
get uh amotized over the next 3 years
and in line with again the acturial
report. Uh those are the two numbers in
so far as uh the impact of wage code is
concerned. 55 crores is more a one-time
impact in the financials. 17 crores of
ammonized cost is something that will
get amotized over the next uh 3 years.
So that's in response to the first one.
On the response to the third question,
motor third party loss ratios. Um I
think I will keep uh keep ritating this
uh what we have told the market is um
overall motor loss ratio range that we
have spoken is between 65 to 67%. And if
you look at uh the 9month numbers and
that is something that we keep urging
that you should keep looking at year-to-
date numbers than more quarterly
outcomes. The 9month numbers for the
current year motor overall stands at
about 66.3%. This is both own damage and
third party put together. So it's kind
of pretty much playing out in line with
the range that one has spoken about and
hence to that extent uh uh we are quite
happy with the way how things have
progressed. To your point on any uh
impact of reserving etc etc. uh again we
will keep uh stressing on the fact that
there has been no change in any of our
actual assumptions and therefore to that
extent it is not that we have done
anything specific whether it was in the
context of last year or even for the
matter of fact when you look at the
numbers from a current year perspective
um so that's in response to the uh third
one and on the second one uh I will
maybe Sanjiv
>> yeah I will just uh so on the motor part
uh clearly first up we are extremely
excited with the positive environment
ment that has got created as I was
giving the briefing the quarter three
numbers the growth in number of vehicles
across private car two-heer as well as
CV which was which has been more than
19% the highest in last 12 quarters is a
very very good sign uh this increase in
number has also come with the GST
rationalization which made the vehicles
cheaper and with that coming through we
had to also realign what is required and
we also spoke about in terms of how the
combine for the market has moved in
motor from 124 which was hard enough to
128. So the realignment was a very key
piece which is what we as an
organization has done. Uh consequent to
this what we are seeing is the growth of
December in particular where we have
exceeded the market expectations. We
remain very positively driven overall as
to what motor holds for us. We've closed
the year with a 10.7% market share. uh
probably a loss of uh point4 or
thereabouts as to what we had 9 months
but as we close the positivity with
which we expect even Q4 numbers to build
up on the new sales would drive growth
for us because that is the combination
which we are probably best at
overall from an environment standpoints
we do see consumption playing a big role
and in that upward mobility of a
two-heer customer seeking private car
and thereabout also is becoming very
clear also So one more point which talk
well for us is we've been a
distributionled company and the growth
is broad-based which is where they
saying that we on tier three and about
where the market growth also is coming.
It again is a big positive for us and it
will help us to drive what we want to
drive as an agenda. So we are overall on
motor very positively placed but the
realignment in wake of what the
intensity is seen is something which is
warranted and we've always maintained
that we'll never shy away from taking
those calls but a range mount 10.7%
Marshia where we stand we are pretty
much involved as a number one player as
a topmost player we are also very aware
of the responsibility that we carry in
the motor segment in particular So
>> that's very helpful. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Your next question comes from the line
of Sankit Koda from Aendos Spark. Please
go ahead.
>> Uh yeah thank you for the opportunity.
Uh uh see the retail health growth 85 or
86 odd percentage in the third quarter.
Um honestly it has the unwinding portion
of last year too. So if if I do end to
end comparison uh which which is more
like to like so so so the uh can you
just spell out the growth how how the
retail health has panned out uh if you
look on end end to- end basis
we not separately calling that out so
honestly uh to that extent I think what
we would say is that uh what we are very
excited is what I think Sanjiv responded
even on motor I think the underlying
demand on ground is kind of pretty much
playing out consequent to some of the
rationalizations that have happened in
the context of uh GST uh that we have
kind of talked about even in the last
quarter and u and hence to that extent
uh one would say that the growth is very
very uh uh exciting and hence to that
extent while it does have an impact uh
but honestly our sense is uh I think
broadly even if I were to kind of uh
give a number even on an end basis I
think that growth would be more or less
around the same range of between 80 to
85%. So hence it doesn't kind of change
much uh which is what we had said what
we are very very excited is more the
underlying impact momentum than looking
at numbers whether on an end basis or a
one by end basis
>> yeah and also you know we talking about
if you look at the numbers you've gone
on 80% plus in all three months October
November and December uh so very clearly
uh the need for differentiating that and
talking as it is it's not a easy
commentary we talking one by
for you to listen on audio itself is a
challenge. I can tell you probably you
can make more sense when you have the
script in hand. Uh but this growth and
what we have been doing over sustained
quarter also is reflected in the market
share which has increased to 4.5% in Q3.
Uh which is which clearly speaks about
the underlying momentum that uh the team
has been able to build. Uh and if your
question is do you see this momentum
probably playing out even in quarter 4?
My answer would be every reason to
believe and it's driven and it's again
driven by a very good demand across
markets. So there is a play and we have
a product and we have a team which is
capable of driving this uh transition.
If you ask the beginning of the year did
we expect a uh 4 and a half percent of
market share my answer would have been
probably it would have been a shade
lower than that. So there is tellt
tailwind which is also helping us look
uh better than what we could have been
but would we have been far would have
been 4%. So it's it's pretty much there
and we are well set. So we at the right
place at the right time uh as far as
health is concerned.
uh Sanjay this this I mean honestly this
growth is little extraordinary even if I
look at from the industry um standard
point of view is it any particular
channel or or you which were not present
in a particular channel now exploring
the channel has contributed to the
growth
>> so that that that I can explain you that
I can sit that's what your question was
so see the product elevate was last year
July okay so we had started doing well
in that and that renewal base also comes
and gets added to the book so
mathematically plus supported by the
tailwinds there is an answer to that
part I mean I'm definitely not saying
that 85% of the growth that will
continue over quarters and quarters so
mathematically speaking the retention of
a product and the quality product is
there then you get good customers and
the retention also is very high and so
there is that part which is helping us
to drive this kind of a growth circuit
>> understood but but any any new channel
which contributed like like maybe you
were not present in one or important. Of
course, our agency channel has opened up
significantly and we able to attract lot
more channels. So, agency is uh driving
this growth. But at the same time, we
were on website. So, we've been pretty
uh across channels. Uh but the
contribution percentage per se of what
was there would not have gone through a
significant change if you look at the
distribution pattern. So, we have seen
this growth across uh channels. Uh uh
San
>> okay. Uh no Sanj the reason I'm asking
is that
>> anyone anyone banker for that matter
>> understood understood the reason I'm
asking this question is that is is our
payout structure to the distributor is
more skewed on n basis rather than one
by n basis and even
>> no no no we have absolute clarity that
even if it's long-term uh what we will
do is what comes with one by as a as a
as a team for us we continue to operate
strictly on those guidelines Thanks.
Okay.
>> Okay. Understood. So, so basically
commission payouts are also on basis.
Sorry to
>> interrupt.
>> Yeah. Yeah. On that. Yes.
>> Okay. Understood. Understood. Thanks.
>> Yeah. But so it would be differentiated
to that extent that one first year would
be something and then second and third
year that obviously is the case but it
is distributed basis.
>> Understood. Understood. If if I squeeze
in one more
>> sorry to interrupt Sanka sir may we
request you return to the queue for
followup questions as there are several
other participants waiting for the
>> Yeah yes yes sir
>> thank you so much our next question
comes from the line of pre Jane from
Motil please go ahead
>> uh yeah hi everyone uh a couple of
questions
>> um just a couple of questions firstly on
the motor side uh we've seen a
tremendous growth in volumes and what
I've understood is there is
premiumization trends as well. uh in
spite of that uh the uh premium growth
for the industry has uh has a decent gap
between the volume growth of the
industry as well as the uh the premium
growth what we have seen right uh so in
that sense what is causing that
disparity and have you seen any further
pricing aggression uh in Q3 with respect
to uh you know motor OD premiums given
that uh you know it was anticipated that
the growth would be there and uh the
competition intensities increase. That
my first question and second question is
in terms of retail health could you give
us some uh qualitative or some numbers
as to around uh as to what is the kind
of growth that is driving the the new
customers that are coming uh what are
they coming at you know what kind of
some assures they are coming and also
the existing customers are they scaling
up the some assured and maintaining the
premium levels or what's the kind of uh
trajectory that we are seeing Yes.
>> Yeah. Okay. So on the uh motorcycle
press uh clearly if you see the growth
has been uh broadbased uh and you've
seen small car the small hatchback cars
being sold far higher uh than any other
car. So the the volume growth may not
necessarily translate into a equivalent
uh growth in premium for the industry.
And also what has to be noted is that
this growth also is fueled by the
rationalization which happened from 28
to 18%. Which itself led to an impact on
the yield per vehicle going down. So
it's a combined uh thing and that is
where the realignment also had to be
done by us as a team to ensure that what
we pick up
overall uh from the market uh with
respect to our own motor portfolio and
also we spoke about how the H1
is uh you know seen the combined ratio
getting that's to answer the competitive
intensity that you're speaking about the
motor combined in 124 and.5 and
thereabouts had very little room to go
further down. It moved down to 128 and
if that is the kind of you know
development that comes in there is no
reason to believe that the competition
intensity has gone down and at the same
time you spoke about specific players
coming and coming out. Frankly speaking
our journey is very secular. you know we
we've got a decent understanding and we
back ourself in terms of what we are
picking up and what we do want to do in
this motor segment in particular uh we
are uh and we have always maintained
that we are very comfortable walking
away what is not making basic sense on
the roe level for motoriz so we do
understand we are willing to play the uh
you know game if there's an roe that
comes through even if it's on an
elevated combine but not in a in a in a
random manner where we just keep
acquiring because there's an opportunity
available. So, so that kind of a
discipline is what drives us and that's
why when the industry has moved from a
124 to 128 are combined actually
improved by some a percentage and some
few more basis points in that H1 period
also. So it's to be taken in
collaboration while maintaining market
leadership. So uh uh further pricing
aggression very little room but we
maintained that over last couple of
quarters but we are very unfaced because
our journey of how we can slice and dice
and do what makes sense what makes sense
for us uh we we would back ourselves and
we are very confident that we'll be able
to deliver what is warranted for us as a
company
on uh is that fresh I hope this answers
what you're seeking on motors and and
more thing on this Sanjie
>> uh and no TP I think no TP hike is
another part which I must add uh to say
which has made the uh yield look what it
is we have been always expecting it but
it's not come through as yet
>> okay just one thing on that motor before
you kind of answer the retail health uh
the hatchbacks and the smaller cars uh
would you say that g given a lot of them
could be the first-time buyers uh
structurally and given you you have a
large history of long history of data on
the same kind of vehicles being sold and
first-time buyers would you say that the
loss ratios or could be higher on this
segment going ahead or
>> yes of course we can we can discuss in
detail but the uh the the long answer in
I'll make it short and say the cars have
also started coming with much better
safety features the road also had
changed so there is a lot more the
challenge systems are getting digitized.
The uh overlay in terms of investigating
what's gone wrong because there are
cameras everywhere across the country.
The surveillance has increased. So
there's lot more pluses, there are a lot
more minuses. I'm not saying it. Uh and
these are all the factors that we are
able to use uh to drive what we want to
drive as a team and that's the USP that
we carry, right? So we wouldn't be too
phased by it. uh and if we do see
segment
going out of hand, I think our ability
to take a cause probably ahead of the
market is what uh is the what is what
differentiates us uh as a team. I hope
again I'm able to put across what I'm
saying. Yeah.
And on the retail health,
>> yeah, on the retail health clearly we
have seen far more you know awareness. I
think this GST card besides of course
making it more affordable has been the
biggest marketing
you know to make the individuals and
their families to realize that health
insurance is critical and as a trend to
be very honest we do see some insured
increasing significantly. We see bulk of
our customers in the range of 7 and a
half to 10 lakhs some insured. So which
is a big positive also to just share
with all of you whenever a customer
picks up a higher sum insured their
ability to retain and be with us is much
higher because the quality of the
customer is much better. So yes it's a
big plus for us uh uh as a company.
>> Thank you so much. Wish you all the
best.
>> Thank you Praesh. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Your next question comes from
the line of Avin Singh from MK Global.
Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi, good evening. Uh, thanks for
the opportunity. Uh, so couple of
question. The first one is looking at
the impact of 1 byN in terms of a
combined ratios. Is it kind of a fair
assumption that the your multi-year
product has seen a very very strong
growth? if you can sort of provide some
color I mean within your retail health
what is the multi-year uh premium shares
so that's one second uh kind of a you
know that now we are kind of have seen
19 10 months of the year uh so for 27 uh
uh if I have missed I don't know uh you
can provide some kind of a uh you know
guidance on growth as well as on
combined and related partly in motor
third party should We expect uh you know
by the time your queue for some reserve
releases given that I mean your I mean
where your reserving are sitting or kind
of a reserve releases in 22 to 24 is
still pretty minimal. So is it kind of a
you know fair to assume that okay the Q
forces should see some motor TP times.
>> Yeah. Uh I think I'll go it on the
reverse way. Uh so motor third party I
think obviously uh yeah uh I think as an
industry we all have been kind of
waiting for the price announcement. Uh
so we'll wait and see by the time we
announce uh results for the next quarter
hopefully we will see where we where we
land. Um so we will keep all of you
updated on that. uh on the second piece
on uh what is it that we can expect for
the next year. I think this is something
that we had spoken even in uh as in last
quarter as in to say that I think given
the strong growth momentum that we see
kind of getting rebound back to us. Uh
what we have always maintained is at a
uh at a top line or from a growth
standpoint we have tried to see if we
can be 100 to 200 basis points at a
company level better than the industry
growth numbers. uh this is cutting
across all lines and uh and that is
exactly what possibly you would have
seen uh getting exhibited in quarter 3
uh for us uh in terms of where we our
growth where we the industry growth and
even more specifically if you would have
seen even for the month of December I
think we have had an outperformance the
overall industry numbers so therefore
that's something that we would endeavor
even as we head into given the strong
growth momentum that one is seeing on
ground and hence to that extent that is
what we would kind of pencil in in terms
of trying to continue to gain in
incremental market share on combined
more important than the combined I think
what we have largely spoken is to try
and see if we can continue to sustain
delivering roe in that in that range of
18 to 20% even if you would have seen
the numbers for the 9 months it's been
roughly around 19% thereabout so hence
to that extent uh in that range of uh 18
to 20% so that's something that is
something we is what we would look
forward again when you look at uh how we
would want to play out even for the next
year uh from an ROE standpoint uh to
your first point I I think it is a high
singledigit number in terms of the
proportion of long-term uh uh premiums
vis the total premium that we underwite.
Um but um I think the only thing that we
would keep urging is uh I think even as
I was as I was reading the transcript I
did realize there are so many numbers on
an end and a one by basis across various
parameters. Um so hence to that extent
if you ask us ideally on a consist this
will actually kind of continue for even
maybe for the next three quarters
because while uh while quarter 3 of this
year onwards now we everything is on a
one by n but still there will always be
a factor of the first question that was
being asked in terms of what is the
impact of acured of last year in this
quarter and so on and so forth. So hence
to that extent a far better reflection
is to keep looking at numbers on an end
basis and there if you would have seen
our combined for quarter 3 has actually
been better. I think if you look at
quarter 3 of last year our combined was
roughly about 102.3%.
And this number on an end basis for
quarter 3 the current year is only super
there I just want to interject and make
this point and we had said that also
when came in as a company uh we don't
want to confuse at any point of time
economic value to accounting you know we
very clear so we have uh uh in all our
conversations with our team and key
personnels who are involved uh we only
discuss on end basis because that is the
true value which will get embedded in
the comes the what comes because of the
uh accounting part is just an outcome
for us and that is the real valuation uh
you know value that we can add even our
budgets for that matter if you have to
share are all taken on end basis uh uh
because that's how portfolio can be
picked up in the right manner and even
cash flows can get generated otherwise
the tendency to make it shorter and
shorter would erode value over long term
sorry Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks a
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Nidesh from Invest. Please
go ahead.
>> Uh thanks for the opportunity. Uh sir,
can you share the share of uh new uh in
the motor segment? What is the new and
what is uh old vehicles?
I'm trying to understand whether the
market share trends are more uh the
market share trends how they are shaping
up in both these segments are we have we
lost market share in the new side that
is reflecting into lower growth or or
it's in both both segment our market
share trends are broadly similar
>> so so n just for the benefit of all of
you I'll give you two numbers uh one is
in terms of mix for quarter 3 new is
roughly about 35% renewal is about 65
uh uh and if you see this numbers for 9
months new is about 33 and renewal book
is about 67. So in that sense relatively
for quarter 3 uh the mix is about uh 35
and 65 but more important than the mix
if you ask us I think the point that we
have been talking about given the
underlying growth momentum kind of play
out with respect to new vehicle sales
and there again in the same order as in
I will give you Q3 numbers first our new
growth has been 12.4%.
Uh and our old growth has been 7.7%.
translating to an overall growth in
quarter 3 in motor for a set about 9.3.
These same numbers if you look at it on
a 9month basis the new growth was has
been 2.5%. The renewal growth has been
6.2 translating to an overall growth of
5%. So this is exactly the point that we
have been talking about. I think what we
are seeing is clearly an underlying
strong growth momentum coming coming in
with respect to new vehicle sales.
Having said that, that does not mean
that for us uh renewals/ retentions are
not important. I think that's equally
very very important. But what we have
been able to leverage is a combination
of both the underlying growth momentum
with respect to new vehicle sales and
then of course the continued focus on
improving retentions as well.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And uh the fact that
the 9 month average is uh when we talk
about new is 2.5 and old is 6.2 2 while
for the Q3 uh the number goes the other
way where the new is the growth has been
led by new and as in the past Gopal has
been briefing you all new has its own
set of expenses that comes but a better
loss ratio and that consequent to that
it will have its uh impact but will have
a long-term value creation for us as a
company. uh in the past for the quarters
that we done always was driven by old
growth and if you go back to our scripts
that we have said we have said our
growth is driven by old so that's a big
transition it's a big plus overall for
us and we have been able to obviously
garner more new uh in the market uh
which has helped us to get this kind of
a growth
>> sure secondly if you can share the loss
ratio in health uh segment wise
>> yeah I was just waiting for somebody to
But anyway uh so uh on uh on uh group
health uh I'll first give the quarter3
numbers and then the 9 month numbers.
First I'll give you the Q3 and 9 month
numbers for last year. Group health uh
last year uh was about 97.2
and uh this number for 9 months of last
year was 97.7.
uh the same group health numbers for
quarter 3 this year was 90.7
and 9 month numbers is 93.2
for retail indemnity that's the other
number that generally gets asked for uh
this again quarter 3 last year retail
indeinity loss ratio was 65%. This
number 9 months was 69.1.
For the current year quarter 3, retail
indemnity loss ratios are 63.1.
9 month loss ratio numbers are 67.3. So
again if you look at uh what we have
been telling the market is on corporate
health or group health generally we have
maintained that we are quite comfortable
running at the book with the mid90s
that's being the that's the threshold
that we have spoken about on the
corporate health and that's exactly how
it has played out on a 9month basis and
even retail health I think the range
that we have generally spoken to the
market is to see if we are able to run
the book at a range between 65 to 70%. I
think what we are quite excited with is
the way how the growth in the book has
played out and the fact that we have
kind of largely seen maybe couple of
renewal cycles play through on the new
product that we kind of launched last
year. I think the good news is I think
the experience that you are seeing on
ground I think is kind of pretty much
holding on to the assumptions that we
had kind of pencileled in when we kind
of launched this. So those are the two
numbers uh that I would kind of uh give
give away to all.
>> Sure. And lastly that on the health side
we are showing very strong growth but
from a longerterm perspective how should
we uh how do we plan to manage the issue
of uh uh old lives getting subsidized by
the new lives and that lead to uh loss
ratio deteriorating over a long period
of time. uh currently we are still a
young company on the health side but as
the growth matures let's say 5 year down
the line how what is the strategy to
manage the overall loss ratio
so two three data points uh one is that
the penetration of retail health in the
country overall is 5%. Okay. Uh most of
us end up looking at group health as a
funible thing for retail cover that
awareness is building up and there's a
long play available and it's also linked
to the purchasing power. If you believe
that the uh GDP growth, the purchasing
power, the income tax curve, the GST all
are leaving this. there's a significant
road available where the uh growth of
new to the uh insurance or new to
protection uh will keep seeing a
significant uh uh traction and also as
loss picks up which is very real and you
are absolutely spot on but at the same
time the expense and the commission of
acquisition also goes down. So there is
a counterplay that comes in and uh the
the aging book in terms of how it
evolves and develops better medical
solutioning all of that what comes into
play we can talk about that when we meet
again but there is a play available and
that's why we see a uh future as we you
know as we go about it
and there is of course and just to add
to it there's a good uh preventive play
that will also become a critical factor
for each one of us in our life. So if
there was a and as a company we would uh
be very actively involved. There's so
much more available and through I'll
take care which has got good traction in
real terms. Uh we do believe that we
will play a significant role. Right now
it's all setting the policy and
admission is how we interact but that
also is progressively changing. uh there
is a good highway available uh and it's
not that sitting in our room we don't
play out and simulate as to how this
port portfolio will behave uh 2 years 3
years 5 years down the line these are
part of actual actial modelings and we
are well aware of it
>> sure sir that's it from my side thank
you
>> thank you thank you
>> thank you next question comes from the
line of sarnav Mukharji from BNK
securities. Please go ahead.
>> Hi sir, thank you for the opportunity.
Uh a couple of questions from my side.
first on the uh commission uh our
commission number that has increased uh
sequentially quite substantially because
I just wanted to understand that um
whether this is uh primarily due to our
retail products increasing in the mix or
uh whether you were seeing even in
commercial lines uh where you source
through maybe uh you know agents or
brokers that there has been an increase
in commission. So some color on what you
are seeing on the ground and just
because you know it's also fairly
topical that we are hearing about some
regulatory scrutiny on this side. So how
do you see the regulatory landscape
playing out? So that is the first one
and uh secondly on the group employer
employee I mean u so as you said uh that
uh the loss ratio numbers uh look fairly
encouraging. So just wanted to
understand that this loss ratio outcome
is this uh more a pricingled outcome or
is this that the claims environment has
become benign which is why we are seeing
this and our growth is this like uh also
a function of the base effect because
last year I think we were uh not growing
this business. So uh is that playing out
or have you become fairly more
constructive on this business than you
were earlier? Yeah, these will be my two
questions.
>> Okay, too many things into two
questions. So, yeah,
if you two questions are brilliant,
>> we will obviously try and address all of
them. Uh, so on the first one, Swarnab,
I think uh again this is something that
we always call out um uh and this is
what even Sanjiv just at the end
responded to one of the one of the uh
questions. See our our business has to
be fundamentally looked at in the
context of a loss experience and cost of
acquisition. So therefore to that action
there are always those nuances that play
out in terms of what mix of business
that you write. Uh relatively I I think
the earlier question that was asked in
terms of the mix between new and renewal
in terms of motor and when I kind of
gave out the data points clearly you
would have seen that the proportion of
uh new was much higher particularly when
you looked at the quarter three numbers
this will be what we had seen for the
whole of 9 months. and new inherently
kind of comes with uh a high cost of
acquisition. Uh and hence to that extent
obviously and more importantly if you
would have seen generally quarter 3 is
is typically a period of seasons. So and
more so on retail. So hence any quarter
three you go back you'll always find the
cost of acquisition to be relatively
higher than let's say what you would
have seen for other quarters. So there's
obviously an element of seasonality that
plays out when you look at the
commission uh numbers on an isolated
basis. But what we would keep saying is
to keep looking at it more on ideally
the overall combined ratio which for us
actually has dropped when you look at
the H1 numbers relative to the industry
adverse uh that has happened but and and
the second number that we keep talking
about is more on the overall expenses of
management. uh so even after considering
the impact of the uh wage code that I
spoke about of roughly about 55 crores
uh as at 9 months I think we are kind of
pretty much there uh in so far as the
limits that are laid down by the
regulatory guidelines so hence to that
extent that's the way we would kind of
look at I think we are very very
conscious of what we kind of source and
very very conscious of what loss
experience and the cost of acquisition
that comes as a part of it uh to the
second point on the regulatory
uh evolution on this. I think honestly
we we all have to kind of wait and see
how it plays out. I think the good news
is I think from a regulatory standpoint
the regulator has been kind of
instituting the right set of guidelines
for the industry. I think a couple of
years back when they kind of introduced
this overall threshold on expens of
management that was a step in the that
was a step in the very right direction
of making sure that all companies all
costs put together are well within that
threshold of 30%. And if you look at
basis public disclosures uh roughly
there are still maybe almost 21 out of
34 players are maybe possibly met the
norms there are still a lot le list of
companies which are still in exance on
the expense of management. So honestly I
think what we would want to see from a
market standpoint is to make sure that
every player in the market stays within
the limit on expense of management and
then honestly we will wait for any
subsequent changes that comes from a uh
uh regulatory changes but we will be
equally kind of committed to whatever
the guidelines that the regulator lays
down. Um so that's in response to the
first point on both commission increase
and what could happen in terms of
regulatory change. to your second point
on the GHI um yes it's a combination of
both I think again this is something
that we have articulated not only in the
context of GHI in general I think what
we have stayed focused on every line you
should see how we can remain profitable
and the very fact that the loss numbers
that I gave out is a testimony to the
fact that we have been very very careful
and selective in terms of what risk do
we want to underwrite uh equally it's
obviously a combination of uh both the
points that you made it's a combination
of let's say better price in terms of
what we are comfortable underwriting and
two we have our own in-house claims
management team I think they do a
brilliant job in terms of making sure
that once the once a group held account
is underwritten how is it that we can
play a very very important role in
managing the overall loss experience and
at the same time giving delight in so
far as customer experience is concerned
which is again reflective of the NPS
scores that we have kind of called out
uh whether it is motor or whether it is
health uh so that's so that's how the
growth has been reflected and again we
will continue to see that play out even
as we head into quarter four or even for
the matter of fact the next financial
year.
>> Right sir and and so just on the first
question I wanted to also uh uh check on
the commercial line side. So is there
any kind of like for where you have
intermediate source the deal has been a
commission inflation anything you can
>> no honestly commercial lines in general
I think uh has been uh if you remember I
think what we have to understand is
commercial lines we have generally have
we have our own relationship team which
acts as a direct interface in so far as
working with corporates are concerned
and hence to that extent uh obviously
relatively that cost of sourcing tends
to be very very low but at the same time
what we also write as a part of the
commercial lines is some of risks uh
which is which tends to be relatively
widely distributed and there there will
be an element of cost of distribution
but overall the point that I made when
you look at the loss experience plus the
cost of acquisition put together on the
commercial lines book that's a very very
profitable book for us and that's the
way how we look at it again rather than
looking at one element of uh the
business that we source
>> right sir got it that's very helpful
thank you so much sir
>> thank Hello thanks.
>> Thank you.
We will take the last question from the
line of Nishin Chawat from Kota. Please
go ahead.
>> Yeah. Uh thanks for taking my question.
U you know uh you have a very impressive
growth in retail health and uh you know
we can see an improvement in uh you know
retail uh loss ratios as well. But uh
you know as as we understand uh you know
typically the lock ratios in retail
products are significantly lower in the
first uh you know 2 3 years and then
they kind of move up from there on. So I
would have kind of said that you know
this this this delta is because of the
portfolio mix. Is it something that the
new policies that are originated are
ported or they are they are originated
under under uh you know uh different
covenants or uh you know is is is the uh
you know is as a cohort level
profitability stable or improving on
deteriority if you would give some color
on that.
So Nish again I think I'll I'll kind of
maintain the same response that I gave
in to the earlier question which is I
think the loss ratio range on retail
health as a company that we are
comfortable running at is between 65 to
70%. And so that's a number that we will
keep looking for in terms of how we are
able to stay within that. Uh to a large
part of in terms of sourcing I think
honestly what we want to do is in line
with let's say some of the uh some of
the discussions that even the government
has been doing to kind of increase uh
healthare or increase healthcare
penetration uh consequent to some of the
reforms that they have done is to kind
of improve penetration at large. So
hence I think where we are kind of
largely expanding our distribution reach
which is what we put out also as a part
of the opening transcript to say that
even on health we are do we do we are
seeing let's say an increase in tire two
tire three cities kind of contributing
and these are as we said new to
insurance uh so hence to that extent I
think so far as we are concerned uh we
would want to kind of uh continue to
expand by acquiring a lot many more new
to insurance uh customers and two and
more importantly the earlier point that
I said in terms of our ability to
continue to retain our own customers is
something that we are very much focused
on. So it will be a combination of those
two is what will continue to drive
growth in the retail book.
>> And uh nine just to add to what Gopal is
saying see uh uh we've also transformed
our own journey right and we are a
multi-line multi-product company uh for
us whether the c customer comes from the
root of motor or from health uh we are
seeing it from a comprehensive one-stop
solution. we were uh under ball in our
offering for a number of years as far as
retail health is concerned and we know
that going in as we move along uh while
we all know that the loss ratios move
upward as we age and that's that's the
truth which I don't see would change but
at the same time you also know if we are
comprehensively dealing with this
customer the motor loss issue also goes
down I mean just to share with you so
it's a very clear mix and we are very
well placed as a multi-roduct multi-
design company. So what we are seeing is
getting a good customer on board and
then then working with them on a
lifetime profitability. So the maths is
what plays out with is what you see
because at times you will see only
health at times you will see only motor
but what we look at it is in a far more
comprehensive offering and with a 2.9%
market share which was just probably 18
months back for us to be a four four and
a half uh where we stand as we exist
quarter three it is just helping us to
build a very well-rounded practice. I'm
not saying it was not wellrounded but
health in particular was always in a
space which was driven by GHI and under
this part we see this as a toggling part
and we see it is a very significant play
in our scheme of thing that's why we got
invested and we we stay positive and
business it's always possible that one
or two lines will have a problem and
covid happened health was all over the
place but motor kind of saved the day
for us so that's the way the portfolio
gets balanced and that's Today we end up
talking about what is it that we can
generate as an ROE.
>> Yeah,
>> got it. That's that's very
comprehensive. Just uh squeezing a last
one. Uh I'm not sure if you mentioned
this but uh uh you know in case of
health uh you know there is uh you know
the the input tax credit loss because of
GST exemption. Uh so how are you dealing
with that? Are you sharing it with the
distributors or are you absorbing it? Is
that one of the drivers for higher
expense ratios? uh so so so clearly yes
we will have to realign our cost
structure and this is what we have done
the benefit in totality of GST
rationalization has got passed on to the
customers uh and uh we had the benefit
of as the volume grows uh for us it you
know in every line of business motor or
health economies of scale will kick in
we have a large uh health practice as a
company which is in combined from the
employer employee as well as retail
health so So definitely we'll do what is
it required to rationalize it and serve
the customer appropriately. Yes.
>> Are you sharing it with the distributor
or
>> Yeah, of course we had we have the
industry has shared. It's not only about
us. We all of us on the general
insurance and the retail health have uh
and then the increased volume is not
impacting the income of the distributor
per se. So there is already a
counterplay which is visible uh which
can be seen in terms of the growth. So
it's not that it's one channel which is
getting impacted uh comprehensively we
are we are all able to do better
business. So yes, it's got passed on. We
have also a cost structure because uh
both part is uh required and today's
technology and the so much which is
going on which we have not spoken but we
can talk about it when we sit onetoone
is helping us also to reduce uh cost per
transaction. uh I don't know when you
see the script which I spoke about as to
how uh we've been able to use uh you
know bots uh uh to get our digital part
of serving DIY serving significantly up
with the uh you know operator handling
it which is driven by a lot more
inconsistency and uh you know uh time
consumption which can happen. So there
is so much that is happening. So the
cost part will go down. So we will be
able to manage it on this front very
easily.
>> Perfect. That's that's that's very very
reassuring. Uh thank you very much and
all the best.
>> Thank you. Thank you and all the best.
Thank you. Okay. Great. Uh thank you so
much for joining in and uh
Okay.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you. Thank you and have a great
2026. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you. Thank you on behalf of ICICI
Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited. That concludes this conference.
Thank you all for joining us and you may
now disconnect your lines.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you.